Developed by Google

How K8S born?
Issue with Containers
1. What if a container relies on other container?
2. What if no. of users increase and scall app?
3. How to scale down when decreases

This process of deploying, managing of containers automatically is container orchestration


Kubernetes
A container orchestration technology, used to orchestrationthe deployment, management of hundreds/thousands of containers in a clustered environemnt


K8S Architecture
A cluster with multiple child nodes and master node to manage child nodes


Components of K8S
1. API Server
    Is like front-end for K8S, user management devices, cmd line interfaces, APIs to interact with K8S cluster

2. etcd
    To store K8S cluster data and logs

3. Schedulers
    To distribute work/containers accross nodes

4. Controllers
    Are like brain behind orchestration
    Responcible for noticing and responding when nodes/containers/end points go down
    Make decision to bring up new containers in such cases

5. Container Run Time
    Used to run containers like docker

6. kublet
    Is an agent that runs on each node of cluster
    Responsible to make sure containers are running as expected


Master has kube-apiserver
Node has kubelet - provides kube-apiserver of health of nodes,  carry actoions requested by master
All the information is stored in a key-value pair in the master - in etcd


kubectl
Is a cmd line utility tool or cmd
To deploy and manage apps on cluster
To get info/status of nodes


POD
Is an object in node
Contains 1/more containers
When a Pod runs multiple containers, the containers are managed as a single entity

kubectl run nginx --image nginx
kubectl get pods


YAML is used for inputs
4 sections

apiVersion - verion of K8S APIs
kind - type of object (ex: POD, Service, ReplicaSet, Deployment)
metadata - Data about objects (ex: name, labels...etc)
spec - To specify actual objects like containers

kubectl create -f pod-definition.yml
kubectl get pods


Replication Controllers
Ensures that a specified number of pod replicas are running at any one time. 
In other words, a ReplicationController makes sure that a pod always up and available

Load Balance & scale by ReplicationController
Helps balance the load accross multiple pods on different nodes to scale apps


ReplicationController was older technique, now used as Replica Set to do same operation
But still minor difference


Services:
Enabales communication withing & outside of application

Ex:
We have 3 PODs Frontend, Backend, DB 

To enable communication between them and users 

3 Types of Services
1. NodePort
    Listens external ports from node and forwards request to pod or internal networks

2. ClusterIP
    Service creates virtual IP in cluster to enable communication

3. Load Balancer 
    Provissions load balance in supported cloud providers
    Ex: Distribute load accross nodes 